# Flipping-Coins-with-RoBERTa
### Final project for Stanford XCS224U - Natural Language Understanding 

This  paper  shows  an  application  of  trans-former  models  (RoBERTa)  to  predict  stockmarket  movement.    Our  research  efforts  fo-cused on extracting the financial 'sentiment' ofstock-price  performance  by  leveraging  com-pany  filings.   We  used  the  SEC  data  to  trainour model and used the equal weighted NAS-DAQ 100 index as our benchmark.  Recogniz-ing the strengths of a sentiment classificationtask, we adopted stock-performance as a proxyfor 'sentiment.' This predicted stock outcomescompared to the market index. Our initial suc-cess  came  from  removing  noise  in  the  formof  boilerplate  text.   Next,  we  chose  logisticregression and the Naive Bayes classificationmodel on smaller data sets with iterative opti-mization for the testing model. Finally, we ranour original system with RoBERTa for stockprice performance 'sentiment' predictions. Wefound that transformer and traditional machinelearning approaches produced sub-optimal re-sults  that  are  on  par  with  a  random  guess,which is why we included our cheeky coin tossresults.   The  real  challenge,  as  our  researchconfirmed, came from the sentiment free toneused in the company filings.

To work with the parsed data and cleaned dataframes, [download the pickle_data folder](https://www.dropbox.com/s/ah8ds55r6ktguaz/pickle_data.zip?dl=1), and place the folder in the same directory as the notebooks.
